Homage to the Buddha Shakyamuni.
Greetings to all fellow practitioners. Today we
are sharing the Dharma with each other in the
regular Dharma discussion session of the Golden Chrysanthemum Club
practicing the Six Harmonies. Now, I invite all fellow
practitioners to clasp their hands and recite the
Buddha's name, praying for blessings. Homage to the
Buddha Shakyamuni. Homage to the
Buddha Shakyamuni. Homage to the Buddha Shakyamuni. Homage to the Buddha Shakyamuni.
Dear fellow
practitioners, we
need to eliminate
doubts, including doubts about the
Dharma we are
practicing. Only when we no longer doubt the Dharma we are
practicing can we be diligent.
In our practice,
which is the practice of transmitting the Dharma,
we will also encounter many
people who question us about
this matter. For example, "What Dharma are you practicing?", "
Does your Dharma lead to
liberation?", or "Is
this Dharma better than that Dharma?"—these are
external doubts, are
n't they? And in our hearts, there
are also such doubts.
Not recognizing whether
one's own practice is correct or not,
one will still be
swayed. Secondly, if one hasn't
correctly identified whether their own practice is correct,
others will cause them to
waver, right?
Furthermore,
we might become attached to the
practice we are currently practicing
and criticize the practice of others,
right? Today, we
come to the Dhammapada, a monk about to
sever his lustful desires. Let's read the text: In ancient times, the Buddha, while
at the Jetavana Monastery in Savatthi, preached to the four assemblies of
gods and humans. At that time, there was
a young monk, naive and
straightforward, who did not understand the essence
of the Dharma. Because of his strong desires, his mind was always
thinking of lust, unable to control himself, and he was
constantly consumed by lust, causing afflictions and disturbances that he could
not escape. He
sat and thought, "My lustful desires
are due to this male organ; it
is disturbing my practice. If I
sever this male organ, only then can I
practice purity and attain enlightenment."
Thinking this, he went to
the house of a man.  Viet borrowed a knife, went back
to his room, closed the door, undressed, and sat on a wooden plank,
determined to cut off his penis.
He believed that this was what caused him
suffering, causing him to go through countless
cycles of birth and death in the three realms and six paths of existence, all
because of female desires. If he didn't cut it off, how could he
attain enlightenment? The Buddha knew this monk was foolish, which is why he thought and acted this way. The truth of practicing the Dharma is to subdue the mind; the mind is the root. Not knowing how to contemplate impermanence and thus self-destructing the body only creates
more sin and leads to endless suffering. At that
moment, the Buddha entered the
room and asked, "What are you doing?" The monk put down the
knife, stood up, put on his robes respectfully, and
replied, "Venerable Buddha, I have been studying the Dharma for a long time,
but I do not understand the method of
practice. Every time I meditate, as I am about to enter a state of concentration, my penis
arises, causing the fire of
desire to burn within me,
clouding my mind and making me unable to distinguish anything. I
deeply blame myself, thinking that this is
all because of the demands of the penis, so I borrowed a knife to
cut it off." The
Buddha, upon hearing this, said, "You are truly foolish, you
do not understand the principles of the Dharma."  To seek enlightenment, one
must first understand the principles of practice, and only then can one
subdue the
mind. The mind is the root of good and evil. To eradicate the
root of attachment and desire, one must subdue the
mind. A tranquil mind and clear thoughts are necessary to attain enlightenment. At that
time, the Buddha recited a verse: "Learning the Dharma
first involves eradicating the root; making the king leave the court and his attendants disperse. This is the
mark of a supreme practitioner."
The Buddha then said, "Among the twelve links of dependent origination, delusion is the foremost. Delusion is the root of all sins; wisdom is the root of all virtues. Therefore, one must first eradicate delusion, and only then will the mind be tranquil." After hearing the Buddha's teachings, the
monk felt ashamed and reproached himself, "I was ignorant and deluded
before, not understanding the
Buddha's teachings, which led to my wrong thoughts and
actions. Now, having heard the
Buddha's guidance, my mind is clear. It is truly
wondrous!" Thanks to this, he practiced meditation,
observing his breath, controlling his inner self,
subduing his
emotions, eliminating all desires, and attaining perfect concentration. He attained
Arhatship right before the Buddha's eyes.
Respectfully, dear fellow
practitioners, choosing a method of practice is not
easy. A monk who has already begun practicing but still does not
understand what a method of practice is will
remain in the present.  In this sutra, the Buddha taught
this: "You are truly foolish and do not understand the principles of the Dharma.
Those who wish to seek enlightenment must first understand the principles of cultivation,
and only then can they subdue their
minds. The mind is the source of
good and
evil. To eradicate the root cause of desire, one must subdue the mind. A calm and tranquil mind, a clear and insightful intention, is necessary to attain enlightenment. That is, if we want to attain enlightenment and liberation, we must have a calm and tranquil mind, a clear and insightful intention. What is a calm and tranquil mind, and what is a clear and insightful intention? In the
preceding part of this sentence, the Buddha
taught that to eradicate the root of desire,
one must subdue the mind. That is, to eliminate all
the roots of desire, we
must subdue
our own minds, subdue our minds so that they no longer yearn for desire.
Our minds must be free from
any trace of desire.
We must understand what desire is. Desire is
wanting, liking, and
beauty; that is, wanting,
liking, and beauty—that is desire. And
lust is
craving, also a desire. As long as there is desire, there is craving.
Those desires are all lust,
desires
and preferences. Are those desires and
preferences within our hearts? If they are
within our hearts, then
let's clarify this point a little. The
desire to become a Buddha is also a desire. Is that a desire? While desire is still a
desire, the desire to become a
Buddha means the desire to
eliminate all desires. Do you understand this clearly?
While desire is still a desire, that
desire is the desire to
eliminate all desires, to become a Buddha. It's the desire to eliminate
all desires, not the desire to
satisfy desires, to satisfy
preferences, to satisfy what the
mind considers beautiful or pleasing.
So, what about the principles of the Dharma? First, one
must understand the principles of the Dharma, then one can
subdue the mind. The principles of the Dharma here
include the mind as the source of good and evil. To
eradicate the root of lust, one must
subdue the mind. A calm and clear mind is the only way to
attain enlightenment. That is the principle of the
Dharma.
Those who wish to seek enlightenment
must first understand the principles of the Dharma, the principles of morality.
The Buddha taught this, remember this:
the path to enlightenment is, firstly, understanding that the mind is the
source of good and evil; secondly, to
eradicate the root of desire, one must subdue the mind;
thirdly, a calm, stable mind with clear insight leads to
enlightenment. That's the principle of enlightenment. So,
all the methods and practices
are our subjects of study, our methods of practice,
dear fellow practitioners. The methods we
use—we are calling them the methods of the physical and chemical disciplines, the
methods to practice the physical and chemical disciplines.
This is called the method of
enlightenment. This method of enlightenment
must have all the necessary elements: firstly,
enlightenment; the mind is the source of good and evil;
and enlightenment—knowing that to eradicate the
root of desire, one must subdue the mind. Thirdly, a calm, stable mind with clear insight leads to enlightenment.
And the Buddha further said,
among the twelve links of dependent origination, delusion
is the root of all
sins. Delusion is precisely the mind of desire.
Delusion is love, dear fellow practitioners.
Among the twelve links of dependent origination, love is...  This will
cause us to continue running in that cycle of
attachment, then birth, aging, sickness, and death.
The root of this delusion is the
mind not understanding, not knowing,
not understanding, not
knowing about suffering, the cause of suffering, and
how to resolve suffering. This is called delusion. Isn't it true that
we are born from attachment, which gives rise to delusion, and this delusion is what arises from
ignorance. For example, we
tell our parents what they want us to do, what they want us to
grow up to be, to find a
spouse, to have a
happy life. We don't
understand what happiness and suffering are.
The Buddha said that's delusion. Then
there are many kinds of delusion. We think our
suffering is predetermined by fate, or our happiness is
predetermined by fate. That's delusion, isn't it? Not
knowing clearly about suffering is due to greed,
attachment, hatred, and unwholesome actions in the
mind. That's not called delusion.
So,
before delusion, there is the root of sins.
Wisdom is the root of actions. Actions
are our deeds. Actions are what
we do.  We are talking about the Ten Virtues of
Samantabhadra Bodhisattva: 1. Paying homage to all Buddhas; 2.
Praising the Tathagata. Is paying
homage to all Buddhas
incorrect? 3. Praising the Tathagata is
not a broad practice. 4. Offering is
not repenting of karmic obstacles; 5. Rejoicing in
merit is not a virtuous practice. It
pertains to actions, but only when
we have wisdom can we
act according to that wisdom. The guidance of
that wisdom means knowing
that the principle of practice is to
awaken the mind, which is the source of good and evil. To
eradicate the root of desire, we must
subdue the mind, achieve mental tranquility, and have clear and insightful thoughts to
attain enlightenment. Only with
such wisdom can we
practice according to that wisdom.
Wisdom is the root of all virtues.
If we don't have
that wisdom now, and we choose a
practice that doesn't lead
to the eradication of
desire, then we know we've chosen
the wrong practice.  Right? This is where
the Buddha clearly shows
us how to identify
our own practice. If our practice does
n't eliminate the mind of
desire, then we truly cannot attain enlightenment.
Any practice that
doesn't transform the mind cannot lead to enlightenment. My fellow practitioners, you
see, for example, the
ascetic practice of eating a full meal requires
transformation every
day. For instance, eating from a begging bowl—is it difficult? Not
very difficult, but very difficult. The food is all
mixed together like that, who wouldn't find it difficult? Isn't it difficult? But is
n't it difficult to eliminate
the
[music] aspect,
like eating and dipping different dishes? That's
difficult, isn't it?
Now, after begging for alms, you'll have a piece of
cake, then some water spinach, and then water spinach
on top of the
cake. Later, you'll eat the cake mixed
with soy sauce.
Doesn't that spoil the taste? Does
n't that reduce greed? That's why there are things
that Buddhists don't cook or offer as alms,
but sometimes the menu lists cake.  Noodles
plus butter, milk, and sugar, but then the
bread disappeared. So the
monks had to eat butter, milk, and sugar with soy sauce
or
something. Just eat, alms-gathering is so natural, there's nothing wrong with that.
Then, alms-gathering is
very natural, like Buddhists buying things to offer as alms.
The food is mixed together, and later,
each person eats from their own alms bowl without distinguishing
between fruit and fruit, without
differentiating between anything. They eat whatever comes their way. Isn't that how you
eliminate
attachment?
Then, sleeping three nights under a tree, does that
eliminate attachment? Does that eliminate lust?
Is that defilement? Three robes, one
bowl, what else is there to choose? Today you wear
this shirt, tomorrow that shirt, today you pray, wrap yourself in
this scarf, tomorrow you wrap yourself in that scarf, right? Barefoot is
always there,
where are the high heels or pointed-toe shoes? Right?
Eliminating the mind of lust is
very good, so any Dharma method that
leads us to recognize
our own mind and  If we can transform
our minds, then that Dharma method is called the
Dharma Method leading to liberation, which means
liberation from our mind of attachment. It's nothing more than
liberation from the mind of attachment.
Actually, the mind of attachment isn't just
about one thing, dear fellow practitioners. It's about attachment to
many things. If it's attachment, then everything is attached,
right? For example,
I like
this flower more than that other flower. It's just
liking, desiring beauty, liking, and following one's own desires—
that's just attachment, right? A practitioner
must cut off all attachments. If a practitioner still has attachments,
it hasn't led to liberation.
Any Dharma method that involves attachment won't
lead to liberation.
Even the sound of chanting scriptures
must be adapted to the time and the audience,
not something one still likes.
Everything must be eradicated—
all attachments, desires, and beautiful things—only then
can one attain enlightenment.
Therefore, we must recognize
our minds in the present moment and
subdue them. That is
called the correct Dharma method of practice. What do we use
to eradicate them?  Except for
that, it's just called happiness, do you agree, fellow practitioners? Meditation,
all sorts of things, it's just happiness. The
ultimate goal is that if
we practice a certain Dharma method and we
don't see ourselves gaining the
awareness of
our mind, if we don't see ourselves
eradicating the mind—that is, if we don't recognize
our own greedy and clinging mind—then
it's still delusion. And how can we
recognize something if we're deluded?
If we don't recognize it, then if a Dharma method does
n't allow us to see
our own mind, if there's no method to
eradicate it, then
that Dharma method cannot lead to
liberation. Because to achieve liberation of mind, it's like
catching a thief;
first, we have to see the thief, right? Only
then can we catch the
thief or chase them
away. First, any Dharma method
must allow us to recognize
the mind, to recognize the mind, and then there must be a
method to eradicate that mind.
Recognizing the mind belongs to
wisdom; eradicating that mind belongs to...
Dear fellow practitioners, that's
why I say the mind is the source of
good and evil. To
eradicate the root of desire, we must
subdue the mind. That is, we must
subdue this mind, and to
subdue this mind, we must recognize the
mind, right? If
we just do things from morning till night without
ever recognizing
our own mind, then there is
no method of liberation,
right? Therefore, we must recognize
this: firstly, we must recognize the
good and evil in
our present mind. If it is an
evil mind, we must eliminate it. That's
why it's called the Four Right Minds: to prevent evil, destroy evil,
generate good, and increase good. To
prevent evil, to destroy evil, generate good, and
increase good, one must
recognize their own mind,
right? And all actions are
about mastering one's own mind. If you see an
unwholesome mind, you must eliminate it. If it
is a wholesome mind, you must let it grow.
If a wholesome mind hasn't arisen yet, you must
let it arise.  Regarding
good deeds that have already arisen, we must cultivate them;
for good deeds that have not yet arisen, we must cultivate them to arise. In
fact, for lay Buddhists, the
practice of the Four Right Efforts is
continuous. Therefore, we must clearly understand
the elements of the Pure Land practice. The Pure Land practice
is a
practice that helps us eliminate the mind of
desire. The
first step in practice is to identify the mind.
If we do something without
identifying the mind, it's incorrect. We
must identify the
mind first, and then eliminate it.
In the Pure Land practice, some
people practice correctly, while others do
not.
For example, those who practice Pure Land correctly
purify their minds, meaning they purify their three karmas—the body, speech, and mind—and become like
Buddhas, reborn in the Western Pure Land.
This means purifying
one's karma, body, speech, and mind, and
then, to be reborn in the
Western Pure Land, one must accumulate merit.
From
the Ten Virtues to the
Eight Precepts, that's the Three Blessings for Rebirth in the Pure Land.
People only need to purify their minds,
right? Then they will accumulate
merit for rebirth in the Pure Land. As long as their minds are pure, that's enough.
Purity is what. There's
nothing to avoid. Don't do unwholesome things according to the Five Precepts,
right? Follow the Eight Precepts and accumulate merit through acts of charity, the Ten Virtues, and studying scriptures to transmit the Buddha's teachings, right?
That merit is for rebirth in the Pure Land. That's not
extreme, right?
So here, we
ourselves can eliminate doubt
and help others,
guiding others when they
ask about the practice. Our minds are
not divided by different practices. We
don't cling to any particular practice because what is practicing Buddhism?
What is liberation of the mind?
Liberation of the mind. Therefore, we cannot be
arrogant. Because
we always examine our own minds, and
we know immediately that we are
not yet accomplished,
right? If we always see ourselves as incompetent,
how can we be arrogant, right?  A
true practitioner
always sees themselves as flawed because they are full of delusions. It's exhausting, dear fellow
practitioners.
Even just walking a short distance requires countless attempts at mindfulness;
otherwise, it's all over the place.
How can you call yourself arrogant then? You ca
n't call yourself arrogant, dear fellow practitioners. But if you
clearly recognize yourself, you can't
call yourself arrogant.
Just sitting and listening to others' mistakes,
and you're already lost in delusions.
How can you dare look down on anyone then? If
you recognize yourself,
you can never call yourself arrogant. And if you're free from
delusions, you're a saint,
and a saint never calls themselves arrogant,
right? We are full of delusions;
how can we dare look down on anyone? But if we
practice carelessly, if we practice reciting
500 mantras a day, or reciting 300 or
400 mantras, we will immediately call ourselves arrogant
because we don't look into our own minds, we do
n't monitor our own minds, so
arrogance will arise. And there are people who
can do this. Today I met this virtuous person, that
is, a true practitioner.  "Look,
tomorrow we'll meet that true practitioner.
Today we'll get a head pat from that true practitioner, tomorrow we'll
get a head pat from that true practitioner. This all helps
us to detach ourselves from our present karma,
right? No matter who we meet,
even if we meet the Buddha, if
our mind isn't pure, it won't bring
us liberation, right? Even if we meet the
Buddha,
if our mind isn't pure, if we have
n't been liberated from that defiled mind, we won't be
liberated. And sometimes, if we're not
careful, we might even get the true practitioners to listen to our
teachings and complain. 'Today
I got the true practitioner's teachings, and they're complaining,' they say, 'Today I got the true practitioner's teachings, and they're complaining,' but then
they're saying, 'What if I increase the defilement in my mind?' That means prolonging our path to liberation, the path becomes longer, right? So, understanding this is the only way for us to know if
we're practicing this Dharma
method correctly or not. The method of
practice we're using
must be one that helps
us recognize our mind in the
present moment and transform the greedy,
lustful mind in the present moment."
We can go about it
step by step, starting with
letting go of evil thoughts and cultivating good thoughts to
practice good deeds. It's gradual, little by little, and only then
can we let go of good deeds. For example, if
you're doing good deeds today,
you might do
two good deeds. Tomorrow you should increase it to three. If you
have two good intentions,
two good words, and two
good deeds, then tomorrow you should increase it to three
good intentions, three good words, and three
good deeds. That means we must start by
clinging to goodness.
Once goodness is perfected, that's
clinging to good deeds, not attachment. Attachment is
defilement; it's when doing good deeds gives rise to arrogance.
That's called attachment and defilement. The
good deeds themselves aren't defilement; the
growth of goodness isn't defilement,
but attachment is.
Do you understand, dear fellow practitioners?
Sometimes we can't distinguish it ourselves,
so we think, "Today
I did one good deed," and we
strive to do two, and
we say, "That's enough."  "Accepting goodness"
is a misunderstanding.
That's about increasing goodness. So what is
called attachment? It means you do
two good deeds while someone else can't do even
one.  When our minds
despise, slander, and belittle others, that's
called attachment. The defilement of attachment,
dear fellow practitioners, have you clearly distinguished
that in your minds?
Many people hear that after abandoning
evil and doing good, even good
must be abandoned, and then they think, "I don't do
good or evil, I do
n't do good, I abandon good." What does that mean? It means abandoning
the attachment to good deeds, abandoning
the attachment that you
have done good deeds, that others haven't.
That's abandoning
the attachment. Dear fellow practitioners, do you understand? Attachment is abandoning the deep-seated attachment to good deeds. Arrogance arises from good deeds.
It belongs to attachment, and from this arrogance, many other defilements arise.
Therefore, we must
clearly understand its meaning before we can
practice it. Sometimes we understand
vaguely, and we often say to
others, "Hey, your
mind is attached,"
but at that very moment,
our mind uses that attachment to criticize
others, thinking, "I'm better, I'm
more capable." Because of that...  The mind that despises others
has its own distinct feeling, right?
Looking down on others must have
a feeling, right? Have you
ever fallen into a state of looking down on
others? You must have experienced it at least a little.
This contempt for others follows
these paths: from
more defilement to less defilement. There are
feelings of pride because we have accomplished
something, but that pride remains a defilement.
If we let it linger in our hearts,
we will eventually criticize.
It's very dangerous. We shouldn't be
proud, but we must know that
we have accomplished something and that we can
strive to improve our abilities.
That's the motivation for progress. That's
also a form of joy in what
we have accomplished, but it's different from
outward pride. That means the mind turns
inward and outward. For example, if we
accomplish something and we're very happy,
we rejoice. That's rejoicing
in our success, and we know
we can do it.  Doing more and
striving to do better—that belongs to the
energy of diligent effort, do you understand, Venerable Master?
But when we become proud and start
comparing ourselves to others, when
we become proud with a mind that compares, that means we are
better than others, that is
called attachment to
our good deeds, do you understand, Venerable
Master? That is, when we
only say, "I am better than others,"
it is due to attachment.
But there is another way of saying it: "Let's
do it, we are better than the other side," to
motivate diligence. That's different.
The mind is subtle; it only
needs to deviate a little.
For example, "Keep going, over there!"
We must win against the other side, but with a
mind that wants to explore
our potential and strive even harder.
That's different from competition. Because
if there is competition, there is a desire for
others to fail. That's
just a little bit of that mind; we must
monitor it carefully and not let it get the better of us.  It
jumps to the other side. The mind's attachment
gives rise to emptiness, isn't that terrible, fellow practitioners?
The mind's
attachment, this attachment, arises very
quickly, making us unable to control
it. A practitioner must know how to
recognize the mind in the present moment to subdue it. There
are words of praise and
encouragement, but they don't belong to
attachment. Self-praise and self-improvement are not
attachments,
so we recognize
our practice in this way. Respectfully, fellow practitioners, upon
hearing
such teachings, this monk exclaimed, "
Now that I have heard the Buddha's teachings,
my mind has become clear. It is truly wondrous!" That is
the method of practice, as the
Buddha taught.
This monk said, "Although I have studied the
Dharma for a long time, I did not understand the method of practice.
After hearing the
Buddha speak about the method of practice, this monk
exclaimed, 'Now that I have
heard the Buddha's teachings, my mind has become
clear. It is truly wondrous!'"
Praise this Dharma practice! So today,
do we praise it? Today, we have
heard the
Buddha's teachings, and
our minds have become clear. It is truly
wondrous, isn't it? Clear understanding of
our own Dharma practice: we must
understand that the root of all suffering comes from our minds,
and within our minds there is both good and
evil. Therefore, to eradicate
delusion, we
must eradicate the root of desire. To eradicate the root of desire,
we must recognize
our present mind
and transform it
so that it is no longer attached to delusion and
attachment. No, there is no attachment to delusion and attachment. If there is
no attachment to delusion and attachment,
then this Dharma practice is the practice that leads to
liberation and enlightenment. May all of you, dear fellow practitioners, be
diligent on this path. We know
that we are lay practitioners walking on
this path, and it is still very long, but as long as we
know the right path, then
even one step at a time will be shorter.
If we don't
know this path, sometimes the path is already long.  It's already
long, and then it goes back again, right?
It gets even longer. We
know it, so we're slow. But slow?
What's slow? We're sure that each step we take will
shorten the path, and that's good. So let's
reward ourselves with a little bit of
teasing. Because we've
heard this sutra, and the
path we're on has become clear. There's no doubt,
right? And we can
eliminate the doubt in the process of attaining
enlightenment. That is, we must eliminate greed, anger, ignorance, pride, and doubt. This includes
doubt about the Buddha, doubt about the Dharma, and doubt about
ourselves. Doubt about whether the Buddha is
real or
not. Doubt about whether the Dharma leads to liberation,
and whether we are practicing the Dharma correctly. And do we practice the
Dharma? If we understand the
Dharma and practice it, and
our minds find liberation, then we will
eliminate this doubt, right? So, if
we eliminate this doubt,
we will diligently practice the Dharma,
and we will reach the destination of the
path, but we don't know when,
it depends.  Regarding our diligent practice, esteemed fellow
practitioners, does anyone have any opinions?
Namo Buddha Shakyamuni. The
nun said she had doubts about
herself. I, the nun,
also have doubts about myself. When
I have a vow to leave home and seek
enlightenment, I wonder
if
I will be able to practice it after entering the path.
Or will I abandon my path? I always have doubts in my
heart, and sometimes I have a seed of doubt.
I
won't let go of my hair and
remain a lay person, serving and being
faithful. Those thoughts always linger in my mind.
Respectfully, esteemed fellow practitioners, we have
decided to walk this path, to become a monk or nun.
It becomes a
straight path to our destination; it
is a straight path
without bumps or
obstacles. Why? Because of the circumstances, that is, the circumstances that lead
to encountering obstacles and giving rise to desires.
Limiting the people's...  In the lay community, the karmic connections
give rise to excessive desires
[in music].
People outside the community give rise to
desires for themselves, and we give rise to desires for ourselves.
But for those who have renounced the world, the karmic connections within the monastic
community and the environment help to
limit these external karmic connections
and cultivate mindfulness. For
example, let's say we are burned, meaning our
minds are filled with desire. If we
continue to encounter fire, healing the old burn is
very difficult; we are constantly facing
new burns. But for those who have renounced the world,
they only have the old burn and no new one.
Therefore, healing
the old burn is easier, faster, and they can
be more resolute. The Buddha taught
this: If one diligently practices the Dharma, it could
be 7 hours, 7 days,
7 months, or 7 years, and one could
attain enlightenment. That is the Buddha's teaching. But the
Buddha didn't say
how long it would take for a lay person to attain enlightenment.
He couldn't say that because
sentient beings outside have so much desire;
they are
consumed by it because their karmic connections are all over the world.  It's just firewood and
half firewood, right?
Today I met this man from the South who
styled his hair with gel, making it stand up straight, that's also half firewood.
Tomorrow, from that straight-up hair
to a crooked
side, that's also half firewood. He praises and
criticizes, not to mention love or affection,
right? And what about relationships?
Parents, siblings, friends, right?
Without those relationships, without practicing
those pleasures, you can't live there,
right, my dear friend? Do you agree?
When you get married, you have to live according to your
wife's wishes; when you have children, you have to live according to your children's wishes.
How can you live according to your own desires? If your child is
sick, you can't say you
can't take them to the hospital, can you? You can't live with few desires, can you?
You don't
need money, but your child needs money, you can't be stingy. How can you be
stingy? You can't be stingy,
right?
Now, to get a job for your child, you need
connections, right? You need talent, you need
many things, that's why it's called family ties. That means
you're bound by them, it's
not that you get what you like
or don't like, but you've been tied
down by the rope.
Your wife is bound by them.  The desires of the
husband and his children are bound by the desires
of the wife and children; we are not
in control, are we? For example,
today we live with the monastic community, and we just
go begging for alms at the appointed time. If there's no food, we
eat; if there isn't, we don't. The wife and children
have to give money each month; if
there's no money in the first month, maybe we'll get some, but in the
second month, we'll have to pack our bags and leave, right?
So we live under the
control of others' desires. How
can we
fight against that and expect to
escape
desires at home? Do you understand this point? It's
impossible. That's impossible. So if you
want liberation, you should become a monk or nun.
Those who achieve
liberation while still in the monastic life are rare in
this world, and we haven't yet reached that level of
rarity, have
we? We don't belong to that rare category.
We are rare enough to have a little bit of inner peace; it's
extremely rare to have a
little bit of inner peace, extremely rare to not be
controlled by others, but that's
not certain. Getting married today is just an
example.  His wife is hungry, isn't
she? But try it three times, and if she does
n't comply the third time, the
family will fall apart, right? That's why it's called
being bound, being constrained. Who's
binding you so terribly? If you think
deeply, out of 10 people who become monks, all 10 are
just lazy and don't think.
Living on the street, you're afraid of what belongs to
yourself. You ride a beat-up old motorbike. You
see someone with a
nicer car, and you feel scared, you don't want to go
out, you're not afraid, you're not afraid. But now,
everyone in the neighborhood has their own car,
right? Everyone has their own car, and
they drive
really nice cars. If you ride a beat-up old motorbike, you're
naturally embarrassed and don't want to go. If
someone invites you to a wedding, you just hail a
taxi. Isn't that embarrassing? You're bound by
yourself,
not to mention anyone else, right?
Then you go to this wedding, they have
new clothes. You invite three weddings, and you're still wearing the same
clothes. You're so embarrassed. You borrow money to
buy another shirt or pants to change.  Should
n't we change it? That's the
terrible constraint. Even wanting to abstain from sex is
impossible. If we want to abstain, we
have to endure all sorts of criticism and
contempt from others. We still have to
endure it: either borrow money, or
endure humiliation and suffering. Whichever we choose, right? There are so
many options. And then there's
our child. Will our child be as good as their friends or their siblings? There are so
many options. That's what it means to be
bound and burned, like
someone who's already bound and then has
firewood piled on top and is set on fire. Because we're
bound and then we
suffer, we're burned, we're urged on
in that bondage. So,
life at home is a life of being
bound and burned by desires. Think about it, think
deeply, and you'll be terrified of life. It's so
chilling, so terrifying to live. You
might not even be able to close your eyes
because of the anxieties and sorrows that burn you. Only when you get
out of there will you see how vast and
spacious it is,
how much freedom there is, free from worries and sorrows.
So, rest assured, becoming a monk is
just about waking up, sleeping, eating, and going.
I can do it too, because the Buddhas
are also human beings, the saints are also human beings, and the
monks now are also human beings, not
something from another planet. So if
people from this planet can do it,
we can do it too. Remember that? Respectfully, dear fellow
practitioners, let's stop here. I respectfully request that you
dedicate the merits of this merit. We clasp our hands and
pray to
dedicate
this merit to all
disciples and sentient beings so that they may all
choose to attain Buddhahood.
[Music]
Golden chrysanthemums entwined with wealth. Even pigs
cannot leave the golden chrysanthemums.
Even if there are pigs, it is not the same
color. Golden chrysanthemum club, hundred-cultivation club, even if there is
difficulty, even if there is difficulty, it is not
insurmountable. Even if there is difficulty, even if there is difficulty, we
will overcome it. Golden
chrysanthemum club, joyful club of practicing the Six Harmonies of Buddhism.
Golden chrysanthemum club, joyful club of practicing the Six Harmonies of
Buddhism.
One body in harmony, two mouths in harmony,
without name,
mind in harmony, four realms in harmony, five understandings in harmony, five solutions.
Where there are flowers, there is peace.
Where there is practice of the Six Harmonies, there is resolution.
[Music]
Golden Owl Club,
Happy Club, Buddhist Practice, Six Rivers,
Golden Chrysanthemum Club, Happy Club, Doing Our
Duties Together, Golden Owl Club, Happy Club, Practicing
Together, Practicing Together
[Music]
Developing Bodhi Mind, Protecting the Three Jewels,
Spreading Buddhist Dharma Widely Throughout the
World, Golden Chrysanthemum, Nobleman, Flower of Liberation, Golden Chrysanthemum Club,
Practicing for Liberation,
Helping Everyone, Praying, Chrysanthemum Club, Happy Club, Cultivating the Mind for Liberation, Chrysanthemum
Club, Happy Club,
Golden Chrysanthemum Club, Happy Club, Offering Club,
and
Buddhist practitioners at Ba Pagoda, always
together, loving each other,
praying for freedom from
suffering, always together, loving each other, praying
for
freedom from suffering
[Music]
Golden Chrysanthemum, entwined with wealth, even pigs do
n't leave, Golden Chrysanthemum, Pure and Noble, even pigs don't leave, Golden Chrysanthemum Club,
Hundred Practices Club, even if it's difficult, even if it's
difficult, it's not difficult, even if it's difficult, it's not difficult,
even if it's difficult, it will be overcome  Through the
Golden Chrysanthemum Club, the joyful club practicing the Six
Harmonies of Buddhism, the Golden Chrysanthemum Club, the
joyful club practicing the Six Harmonies of Buddhism,
one body in harmony, two mouths in harmony, without
conflict, three minds in harmony, four precepts in harmony, five understandings in
harmony, the words of the flower,
where there is a flower, there is joy, where there is joy,
where there is the Six Harmonies, there is liberation.
[Music]
The song of the Golden Chrysanthemum Club, the
joyful club practicing the Six Harmonies of Buddhism, the
Golden Chrysanthemum Club, the joyful club, together doing our
duty, the Golden Chrysanthemum Club, the
joyful club, together practicing the teachings, together with the Golden Chrysanthemum Club.
[Music]
The love of cultivating Bodhi mind, protecting the Three Jewels,
spreading Buddhist teachings throughout the
world, the golden chrysanthemum, the noble flower, the color of
liberation, the song of the golden chrysanthemum, practicing to seek
liberation, helping everyone, the
Golden Chrysanthemum Club, the joyful club, cultivating the mind, the song of
liberation, the Golden Chrysanthemum Club, the
joyful club, the joyful club, the joyful club,
[Music] The
club, offering and being
Buddhist practitioners at Ba
Vang Pagoda, always together in love.
To pray for freedom from
suffering, always together,
believing in the
love of
freedom
[music]
The golden chrysanthemum wrapped in pigweed oil will
not leave the golden chrysanthemum flower, the high oil of
pigweed is not the
color of the golden chrysanthemum club, the hundred-cultivation club, even if it is
difficult, even if it is not difficult, we will
not give up,
even if it is difficult, even if it is not difficult, we will overcome it, we will overcome it.
Golden Chrysanthemum Club, joyful club, practicing the Six Harmonies of
Buddhism, the golden chrysanthemum club,
joyful club, practicing the Six Harmonies of Buddhism, one body, one
action, two mouths, one mind, one thoughts, one mind, one mind, one mind, one
realm, one
cultivation, five understandings, one solution, six words, one mind,
where there is a flower, there is peace, where there is liberation, where there is liberation.
[music] The
golden chrysanthemum club, joyful club, practicing the Six
Harmonies of Buddhism, the
golden chrysanthemum club, joyful club, doing our
duty together, golden chrysanthemum club,
joyful club, cultivating together, believing in each other.
[music]
The love of cultivating Bodhi mind, protecting the Three Jewels,
spreading the Buddha's teachings throughout the
world.  The noble chrysanthemum, the flower of
liberation, the chrysanthemum club, practicing for
liberation, helping everyone, the chrysanthemum
club, the peaceful club, cultivating the mind, the
liberation, the chrysanthemum club, the peaceful club, the chrysanthemum
club, the
peaceful club, the
offering club, and those who practice Buddhism
at Ba
Vang Temple always together, with faith
to pray for freedom from suffering,
always together with faith
to
pray for
freedom from pain.
[Music] [Applause] [Music]
[Applause]
K
[Music]